well howdy there internet people it's
beau again
so today we're going to talk about one
of biden's appointments
we haven't covered them all because
frankly a lot of them have been very
expected
or they don't really tell us much
they're more political than
agenda setting
he just announced one that is very
interesting
so we're going to talk about that
william burns
is a diplomatic heavyweight he has been
around a long time
he has been involved in a lot of high
profile stuff
he has experience everywhere that the us
needs experience right now
with the exception of china i don't
think he's ever done anything there
but as far as russia the near east all
of that
he's experienced he understands that the
united states
is shifting its foreign policy
to counter near peers major powers
when his name came up initially when
biden was building his
all-star foreign policy team nobody was
surprised
i think a lot of people saw him as a
possible
secretary of state biden has chosen to
make him dci
the director of central intelligence
as somebody who is never surprised by
anything on the foreign policy scene
didn't see that coming did not see that
coming
burns has no intelligence experience
whatsoever
none however
he has been the consumer of the
intelligence product
for decades
the intelligence world is really about
information
all of the james bond masters of the
universe type stuff
that's secondary the real job is
gathering information distilling it
and disseminating it with the idea of
telling diplomats in the executive
branch
what the opposition's intent is what
they plan on doing the
that's the holy grail telling the future
burns has been the consumer of that
product for a very long
time putting him in this chair
kind of makes sense um in
a couple of different ways the thing is
we don't know which way it makes sense
there are three options as to why biden
would do this
the first is that
he plans on using burns to reform
the cia reforms that have been
desperately needed for decades
because they have become much more
involved in the masters of the universe
james bond type stuff
than they have in the the core mission
biden has made no indication that he
intends on doing that though
it would make sense to use burns for
that because he is a person who can say
this is what i need to know this isn't
what i need to know
we don't need to worry about this covert
stuff we're we're focusing on
information
our foreign policy is based on diplomacy
it would make sense to use him for that
he would be perfect for that
but there's been no indication that
that's the plan
another option is that biden feels he
needs a
second secretary of state
and he needs somebody who knows what
they're doing in a position
that can get a meeting with just about
anybody
who has access to the information and
who knows what to do with that
information
and that would make sense the trump
administration made a mess
of our foreign policy this would be a
way to get
a to get another player out there
trying to fix it that has
enough institutional clout
to get stuff done but who's really
acting as a diplomat
that would make sense too but again no
indication that that's the case
the third option the first two are good
the
third option is that the biden
administration plans on using
the current capabilities and habits of
the intelligence world
a lot in foreign policy
that's not so good that that's not a
good thing
um but we have no indication that that's
what he plans on doing
i don't think anybody knows why burns
was chosen for this spot
um now to be clear even if it's business
as usual
burns isn't a bad choice he understands
foreign policy he understands the world
he understands the areas um
he would have to uh
kind of ingratiate himself into that
community a little bit but he's a
diplomat he'll be able to do that
it's definitely a a position to watch
what burns does in this chair
is going to shape a lot of american
foreign policy in the future because
we're coming out of the trump
administration
where the entire world knows that it was
just mishandled
burns is setting the tone for our
foreign policy
in a lot of ways with what he does in
this chair
this is somebody to watch and to pay
attention to
because the decisions he makes are
literally going to shape the next 10 or
15 years
of american foreign policy
anyway it's just a thought y'all have a
good day